This file documents the current state of the transition to the new
dataset implementation. May the source be with us!


Examples
--------

clfs_examples.py            not checked
curvefitting.py             not checked
erp_plot.py                 not checked
eventrelated.py             not checked
gpr_model_selection0.py     not checked
gpr.py                      not checked
kerneldemo.py               not checked
match_distribution.py       not checked
mri_plot.py                 not checked
permutation_test.py         not checked
projections.py              not checked
pymvpa.cfg                  not checked
searchlight_2d.py           not checked
searchlight_dsm.py          not checked
searchlight_minimal.py      not checked
searchlight.py              not checked
sensanas.py                 not checked
smellit.py                  not checked
smlr.py                     not checked
som.py                      not checked
start_easy.py               completed
svdclf.py                   not checked
topo_plot.py                not checked


Unit tests
----------

test_args.py                pass
test_arraymapper.py         pass
test_atlases.py             pass
test_base.py                pass
test_boxcarmapper.py        pass
test_clfcrossval.py         broken
test_clf.py                 broken
test_cmdline.py             pass
test_config.py              pass
test_datameasure.py         broken
test_datasetfx.py           pass
test_datasetfx_sp.py        pass
test_datasetng.py           fail
test_dataset.py             broken
test_dochelpers.py          pass
test_eepdataset.py          broken
test_enet.py                not checked
test_externals.py           pass
test_hamster.py             pass
test_icamapper.py           pass
test_ifs.py                 broken
test_iohelpers.py           pass
test_kernel.py              pass
test_knn.py                 broken
test_lars.py                not checked
test_meg.py                 pass
test_neighbor.py            pass
test_niftidataset.py        broken
test_params.py              broken
test_pcamapper.py           broken
test_perturbsensana.py      broken
test_plr.py                 pass
test_pls.py                 pass/empty!
test_procrust.py            pass
test_regr.py                broken
test_report.py              pass
test_rfe.py                 broken
test_ridge.py               pass
test_samplegroupmapper.py   broken
test_searchlight.py         broken
test_smlr.py                broken
test_som.py                 broken
test_splitsensana.py        broken
test_splitter.py            pass
test_state.py               broken
test_stats.py               broken
test_stats_sp.py            broken
test_suite.py               pass
test_support.py             broken
test_svdmapper.py           broken
test_svm.py                 broken
test_transerror.py          broken
test_transformers.py        pass
test_verbosity.py           pass
test_waveletmapper.py       pass
test_zscoremapper.py        broken

