.. _datadb_tutorial_data:

********************************
Tutorial Data: Block-design fMRI
********************************

This dataset is a compilation of data and results for :ref:`PyMVPA
Tutorial <chap_tutorial>`.

At the moment dataset is based on data for a single subject from a
study published by :ref:`Haxby et al. (2001) <HGF+01>`.
The full (raw) dataset of this study is also
:ref:`available <datadb_haxby2001>`. However, in contrast to the full data
this single subject datasets has been preprocessed to a degree that should
allow people without prior fMRI experience to perform meaningful analyses.
Moreover, it should not require further preprocessing with external tools.

All preprocessing has been performed using tools from FSL_. Specifically, the
4D fMRI timeseries has been motion-corrected by applying MCFLIRT to a
skull-stripped and thresholded timeseries (to zero-out non-brain voxels,
using a brain outline estimate significantly larger than the brain, to
prevent removal of edge voxels actually covering brain tissue). The
estimated motion parameters have been subsequently applied to the original
(unthresholded, unstripped) timeseries. For simplicity the T1-weighed
anatomical image has also been projected and resampled into the subjects
functional space.

For surface-based mapping two other archives are distributed, called
'tutorial_data_surf_minimal-0.1.tar.gz' and
'tutorial_data_surf_complete-0.1.tar.gz'. Both contain surfaces that
were reconstructed using FreeSurfer and preprocessed using AFNI and SUMA.
The 'minimal' archive contains the minimal
set of surfaces to run doc/examples/searchlight_surf.py. The latter
contains the full output from FreeSurfer's recon-all and the full output
from the anatomical preprocessing by the alignment script in
bin/pymvpa2-prep-afni-surf. This output includes left, right,
and merged (left combined with right) hemispheres at various resolutions.
Surfaces produced by the alignment script are stored in ASCII format and can
be read by the module mvpa2/misc/nibabel/surf_fs_asc. The surfaces can
be visualized using AFNI's SUMA (SUrface MApper).


Terms Of Use
============

The orginal authors of :ref:`Haxby et al. (2001) <HGF+01>` hold the copyright
of this dataset and made it available under the terms of the `Creative Commons
Attribution-Share Alike 3.0`_ license. The PyMVPA authors have preprocessed the
data and released this derivative work under the same licensing terms.

.. _Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/


Download
========

Tarballs are available at:

  http://data.PyMVPA.org/datasets/tutorial_data


Tarball Content
===============

haxby2001/
  Contains data files:

  bold.nii.gz
    The motion-corrected 4D timeseries (1452 volumes with 40 x 64 x 64 voxels,
    corresponding to a voxel size of 3.5 x 3.75 x 3.75 mm and a volume repetition
    time of 2.5 seconds). The timeseries contains all 12 runs of the original
    experiment, concatenated in a single file. Please note, that the timeseries
    signal is *not* detrended.

  bold_mean.nii.gz
    The voxel-wise average image of bold.nii.gz (averaged over time).
    Generated using AFNI's 3dTstat.

  bold_mc.par
    The motion correction parameters. This is a 6-column text file with
    three rotation and three translation parameters respectively. This
    information can be used e.g. as additional regressors for :ref:`motion-aware
    timeseries detrending <motion-aware_detrending>`.

  mask*.nii.gz
    A number of mask images in the subjects functional space, including a
    full-brain mask.

  attributes.txt
    A two-column text file with the stimulation condition and the corresponding
    experimental run for each volume in the timeseries image. The labels are given
    in literal form (e.g. 'face').

  anat.nii.gz
    An anatomical image of the subject, projected and resampled into the same
    space as the functional images, hence also of the same spatial resolution. The
    image is *not* skull-stripped.

freesurfer/
  Data used for and generated by FreeSurfer_\'s recon-all. Only included
  in the ``tutorial_data_surf_complete`` archive.

  anat_nii.nii
    A high-resolution version of the anatomical image that was used
    for surface reconstruction with FreeSurfer's ``recon-all``.

  subj1
    Contains the output from FreeSurfer's recon-all. The command used to
    generate the output was::

      recon-all -subject subj1 -i anat_nii.nii -all -cw256

    Note that the environmental variable SUBJECTS_DIR was set to point
    to the current working directory (freesurfer). The version of
    FreeSurfer used for reconstruction is:
    freesurfer-Linux-centos4_x86_64-stable-pub-v5.0.0.

  subj1/surf/SUMA
    Contains the output from `AFNI`_'s @SUMA_Make_Spec_FS program that
    converts FreeSurfer's output to AFNI-readable files.
    It also contains surfaces resampled using MapIcosahedron.
    For the command used to generate these files, see the
    suma_surfaces description below.

results/
  Some analyses presented in the tutorial takes non-negligible time to
  compute. Therefore, we provide results of some analysis so they
  could simply be loaded while following the tutorial (commands to
  load them are embedded in the code snippets through out tutorial and
  prefixed with ``# alt:``).

start_tutorial_session.sh
  Helper shell script to start an interactive session within IPython
  to proceed with the tutorial code.

suma_surfaces/
  Surfaces generated by the AFNI_ / SUMA_ wrapper script in
  bin/pymvpa2-prep-afni-surf.
  Most files are available only in the tutorial_data_surf_complete archive.
  The minimal set for running ``doc/examples/searchlight_surf.py`` is
  provided in the tutorial_data_surf_minimal archive.
  These surfaces are aligned to bold_mean.nii.gz as indicated by the
  infix ``_al`` in the file name.
  The contents of this directory can be generated with::

    PyMVPAROOT/bin/pymvpa-prep-afni-surf.py \
    --refdir suma_surfaces \
    --surfdir data/freesurfer/subj1/surf \
    --epivol data/bold_mean.nii.gz

  where PyMVPAROOT is the directory where PyMVPA is installed.
  Using this script requires that FreeSurfer, AFNI and SUMA are installed.
  The prefixes icoXX_Yh indicates that the surface was generated using
  AFNI's ``MapIcosahedron`` with XX linear divisions (ld parameter) and
  represents the Y hemisphere (l=left, r=right, m=merged). Such
  a surface has 10*XX**2+2 nodes and 20*XX*2 surfaces for a single
  hemisphere, and twice that number for merged hemispheres. Merged
  hemispheres contain first the nodes of the left hemispheres, followed
  by the nodes in the right hemisphere.
  SUMA .spec files that define several views are also provided for
  these surfaces.
  Files were generated using FreeSurfer version stable5, and AFNI
  AFNI_2011_12_21_1014 running on a Mac with Mac OS 10.7.5.



Instructions
============

  >>> from mvpa2.suite import *
  >>> datapath = os.path.join(pymvpa_datadbroot, 'tutorial_data',
  ...                         'tutorial_data', 'haxby2001')
  >>> attrs = SampleAttributes(os.path.join(datapath, 'attributes.txt'))
  >>> ds = fmri_dataset(samples=os.path.join(datapath, 'bold.nii.gz'),
  ...                   targets=attrs.targets, chunks=attrs.chunks,
  ...                   mask=os.path.join(datapath, 'mask_brain.nii.gz'))
  >>> print ds.shape
  (1452, 39912)
  >>> print ds.a.voxel_dim
  (40, 64, 64)
  >>> print ds.a.voxel_eldim
  (3.5, 3.75, 3.75)
  >>> print ds.a.mapper
  <Chain: <Flatten>-<StaticFeatureSelection>>
  >>> print ds.uniquetargets
  ['bottle' 'cat' 'chair' 'face' 'house' 'rest' 'scissors' 'scrambledpix'
   'shoe']


References
==========

:ref:`Haxby, J., Gobbini, M., Furey, M., Ishai, A., Schouten, J., and Pietrini,
P.  (2001) <HGF+01>`. Distributed and overlapping representations of faces and
objects in ventral temporal cortex. Science 293, 2425–2430.

.. _AFNI: http://http://afni.nimh.nih.gov

.. _FSL: http://www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl

.. _FreeSurfer: http://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

.. _SUMA: http://afni.nimh.nih.gov/afni/suma

Changelog
=========

0.3*
  * Added tutorial_data_surf_{complete,minimal}-0.1.tar.gz
    descriptions to this README file.

0.3
  * Removed tutorial_lib.py which is superseded by using
    mvpa2.tutorial_suite
  * Removed start_tutorial_session.sh which is superseded
    by the pymvpa2-tutorial command
  * Removed outdated intermediate tutorial results. The tutorial
    can now be ran on downsampled data that allow for near-realtime
    computing on reasonable hardware.
  * Data is now structured according to an openfmri.org-like scheme.

0.2
  * Updated tutorial code to work with PyMVPA 0.6
  * Removed dependency on PyNIfTI and use NiBabel instead.

0.1
  * Initial release.
